*17.01.2022*

The focus of this meeting was, essentially, catch up with progress made over the Christmas break.

## Actions

1. Think more about what's going on with the BGP solution/s.
2. Potentially implement a threaded version of the BGP.
3. Update the DP story to include aspects of the solution relating to things like semaphores, i.e., what is the story equivalent of these, if any.
4. Think about - then design and implement - some kind of more abstract version of the H&G algorithm.
5. Think about how you might visualize the BGP and the DP, to complement the visualization of the H&G.
6. Further progress on narrative analysis.


## Potential Long-Term Focus

1. A **research question** of: how can story-thinking help, or hinder, computational thinking in software engineering?
2. **Motivation**:
   1. Stories are part of what it means to be human and
   2. stories are used in various ways in software engineering, e.g., as user stories, metaphors, etc, but
   3. there is no work that has formally looked at the relationship between story-thinking and computational thinking, e.g., between the 'things' that make up stories, and the things that make up computational thinking.
3. **Method**: we take several short stories (e.g., BGP, DP, H&G, maybe others too) and analyse the relationship between the story, and how one thinks about the story, and related algorithm/s and how one thinks computationally. The analysis takes multiple forms, including:
   1. Progressing through the software engineering process from user stories through implementation and testing; and
   2. the, as a result of the SE process, the generation of various computational models (e.g., ERDs).
   3. The development of a simple narrative analyser that begins to extract/identify elements of stories.
   4. Some kind of comparison of these different things, e.g., comparing the different models.
4. **Findings**: well, they are emerging over the course of the project
5. **Conclusion**: once we have some findings, we can draw conclusions.
