*13.10.2021*

## Summary

Hi Konrad, to briefly summarise the where nexts:
1. Read the BGP paper, or at least enough of it to try to understand the story:
2. Extract just the story, e.g., into a Word document, or a markdown document;
3. Try to implement the story as a Python program, e.g., a class called General with objects that are specific generals. See how you get on with this item - it may be easier or harder
4. Read the Francise Prose essay, in Alice LaPlante's book;
5. Read anything else that interests you in this area, e.g., literate programming
6. Message me throughout the week if you have any questions.

Hi Konrad, just to add to my earlier message, I have sketched a class diagram that attempts to model the Byzantine Generals Problem. I didn't (need to) read past about the midpoint of the second page of the article to extract the story. You may want to read beyond that (that's up to you), e.g., I may not have fully understood the story. My class diagram is a draft and I make no claim that it's correct. It includes attributes and method signatures but nothing beyond that. I also have a sketch of a main() function that would instantiate and call the relevant objects as appropriate.

My point with all of the above is that you may not need to go to a code implementation at this stage (but you may also want to, which is fine), you may be okay going to a software design level.


## Notes

* **Page 167 Alice LaPlante - "What makes a short story?"**
* Byzantine Problem;
  * May be a story... just a bad one.
  * Poor separation of story and science/engineering.
    * Real generals follow orders.
    * Characters have no motives.
    * A story should be self-contained and tell you everything.
  * Inconsistent language.
  * **Attempt to extract and implement the story.**
    * First few pages only.
    * Does it make sense?
    * HOW?
      * Generals as objects.
      * How do they communicate?
      * Concept of enemy city.
    * **Story as specification.**
  * Donald Knuth - literate programming.
  * WHY?
    * CS engineers use stories as abstractions.
    * Stories as "specifications"
      * Is it complete?
      * Can you write it in code?
      * Should be able to, for example, change name "General" arbitrarily and logic would hold.
      * Good story = complete, logical code.


## Byzantine Generals

A Group of generals of the Byzantine army camped with their troops around an enemy city. Communicating only by messengers, the generals must agree upon a common battle plan. However, one or more of them may be traitors who will try to confuse the others. The loyal generals must reach agreement using only oral messages (possible only if more than two-thirds of the generals are loyal).

Several divisions of the Byzantine army are camped outside an enemy city, each division commanded by its own general. The generals can communicate with one another only by messenger. After observing the enemy, they must decide upon a common plan of action. However, some of the generals may be traitors, trying to prevent the loyal generals from reaching agreement.

All loyal generals must decide upon the same, reasonable plan of action and carry it out, whereas the traitors may do anything they wish. A small number of traitors cannot cause the loyal generals to adopt a bad plan.

Each general observes the enemy and communicates his observation to the others. Each general then combines all reported observations into a single plan of action (ie. attack or retreat), for example, by using a majority vote. A small number of traitors can affect the decision only if the loyal generals were almost equally divided between the two possibilities.

## Story (refined?)
Several divisions of the Byzantine army are camped outside an enemy city, each division commanded by its own general. Each general observes the enemy and communicates his observation to the others. Each general then combines all the reported observations into a single plan of action (i.e., “attack” or “retreat”), for example, by using a majority vote. Communicating only by messengers, the generals must agree upon a common, and reasonable battle plan, however, one or more of them may be traitors who will try to confuse the others. All loyal generals must carry out the same plan, whereas the traitors may do anything they wish.

## Donald Knuth/Literate Programming
### WEB

Web is a computer programming system created by Donald Knuth as the fist implementation of what he called "literate programming"; the idea that one could create software as works of literature, by embedding source code inside descriptive text, rather than the reverse.

WEB consists of two secondary programs: TANGLE which produces compilable Pascal code from the source texts, and WEAVE which produces nicely formatted, printable documentation using TeX.

CWEB is a version of WEB for C.

Donald Knuth created this new methodology of programming while developing TeX, because he believed that programmers should think of programs as works of literature. *"Instead of imagining that our main task is to instruct a computer what to do, let us concentrate rather on explaining to human beings what we want a computer to do."*

https://github.com/bslatkin/pyliterate

https://www.cs.tufts.edu/~nr/noweb/


## Programming As an Art

*(linking back to the thoughts expressed in meeting 1)*
http://www.paulgraham.com/knuth.html


## Literate programming vs. Jupyter Notebooks.

Literate programming is more powerful (e.g., Can use snippets of code, place text in the middle of code, etc.). Jupyter is better for “exploratory” programming.

Advantages of literate programming:
* Great documentation.
* Good for teams.
* Follows your thoughts and flow of logic.

Disadvantages:
* Cumbersome to write.
* Not necessarily as intuitive.


https://gigamonkeys.com/code-reading/

https://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=10693#comment-563359

https://orgmode.org/

**An interesting idea is that code is “decoded” and not “read” like prose. Code can be scanned and understood, prose not so much.**

## What Makes a Short Story?

* Certain length?
* Anecdotes?
* Ideas, pictures, illustrating something?
* Cannot be summarised or reduced without sacrificing the very qualities that distinguish it.
* What has not been said?
* **Nothing can be added, nothing taken away.**
* Aristotelian principles?
* **Single effect? One thing?**
* Restricted plot and characters?
* Few protagonists?
* Consistent perspective?
