*10.11.2021*

## Notes

* Think about the directions which the project can take - which would I most prefer?
* Look at solutions to the Byzantine Generals Problem.
  * Online.
  * In papers.
* Study the process of moving from a story to code and the steps/transformations involved.
  1. Story
  2. User stories
  3. Assumptions
  4. Design decisions
  5. Class diagrams
  6. Implementation
  7. ...


## Interesting Remarks by Leslie Lamport
Taken from [HERE](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs6410/2018fa/slides/18-distributed-systems-byzantine-agreement.pdf).

> I have long felt that, because it was posed as a cute problem about philosophers seated around a table, Dijkstra's dining philosopher's problem received much more attention than it deserves.
> The popularity of the dining philosophers problem taught me that the best way to attract attention to a problem is to present it in terms of a story.

> There is a problem in distributed computing that is sometimes called the Chinese Generals Problem, in which two generals have to come to a common agreement on whether to attack or retreat, but can communicate only be sending messengers who might never arrive.
> I stole the idea of the generals and posed the problem in terms of a group of generals, some of whom may be traitors, who have to reach a common decision.

[Related video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKSbAEbNifA)

Possibly useful summary of algorithm and engineering from the BZP [HERE](https://gist.github.com/Ljzn/8c3dc131fc8e764658b2b6ca06d05483).


## Existing Solutions
There exist implementations to the Byzantine Generals Problem online which do a similar thing to what we looked at. For example, [this](https://github.com/JVerwolf/byzantine_generals) is an implementation of the problem in Python. Interestingly, many of these solutions (including that which was linked) share many similarities to our own code, however, they are fundamentally different in the respect that they implement the actual algorithm described in the paper. While, in our implementation, we focused only on the story that we were given and treated it as a software specification, these other implementations ignore the story and implement the engineering and proof that are laid out in the paper. The code produced from this approach is perfect in that it agrees with the paper while our own implementation is fundamentally flawed due to the inadequacy of the story. The linked implementation, for example, models only a single class - the General, which makes sense when you consider the engineering in the paper, but not when you are working only with the abstraction.


## Direction of the Project
This is a project which is heavily research focused and with an unclear (to me) end goal. As such, it is quite an open project with many possibilities and many directions that it could be taken in. In broad and quite abstract terms, the project is about studying the *relationship between story and software*. This gives a rough idea of what the project is but it doesn't seem to narrow down the things that could be looked at, which is both a curse and a blessing. The approach so far has been to focus on the Byzantine Generals paper, extract a story/abstraction from it, and treat that as a software specification to see how far it is possible to go with creating an appropriate software implementation. The process was not as simple as just taking the story and writing code - the story had to go through various transformation steps before being turned into code. The story became the user stories, which became design decisions, class diagrams, etc... What complicated matters more is that each consecutive transformation consisted of making assumptions and brought us farther and farther from the story and the overall picture that it presents.

Topic which were looked at throughout the process include:
* Jupyter notebooks
* Literate programming
* Narrative and what makes a story
* BZP...
  * is it a good story?
  * poor separation of story and engineering?
  * real characters have motives
  * inconsistent language
  * assumptions must be made
  * certain details must be inferred
* Stories as specifications...
  * is it complete?
  * can you write it in code?
  * does it make sense?
  * good story = complete, logical code
  * is it helpful to think of code as stories?
  * what is it expressing? is it enough?
* Code is not literature blog.
* Use of metaphors & analogies in SE
* Leaky abstractions

Some possible directions in which to take the project:
* Focusing on the transformations and processes involved in moving between story and code.
  * Is there some way to make these more efficient?
  * Can we preserve more of the bigger picture between each step?
  * How do we reduce the amount of assumptions we make?
  * Perhaps the end goal is the creation of a better set of processes, a rigorous set of rules, design approaches, paradigms, etc.
* Studying the stories themselves.
  * What makes a story?
  * How do we write a better story, knowing that it will be used as a software specification.
  * Related to the use of metaphors and analogies in SE.
  * End goal could be the designing of a set of rules to follow when writing stories. Maybe even some sort of tool to aid software developers.
  * is it helpful to think of code as stories?
* Could we combine the two items listed above?
