*20.10.2021*

## Summary

Hi Konrad,
It was good to chat this morning about your project. Here's a summary of some thoughts I had, during and following our chat:

1. Consider how you'll handle different implementations, e.g., as separate Notebooks or as separate classes etc within one Notebook. My sense is that separate Notebooks would be 'better' because they would allow cleaner and more explicit comparisons of the different interpretations of the story and of the implementations.
2. Try to include at the beginning some of the following sections, as separate sections:
   1. Your assumptions about the story, e.g., what a phrase might mean.
   2. User stories, e.g., as a General, I want to... so that..., as a Loyal General, I want to... so that... etc. as a Traitorous General, as a Messenger.
   3. Any design decisions you need to make, e.g., how you'll design based on the assumptions you make.
   4. Related to design decisions, I wonder too whether you might include a design-level diagram, e.g., a class diagram or object diagram. My assumption is that to include a diagram into Jupyter you might have to import some kind of diagram you generate elsewhere, but Jupyter may have some other way to do this.
3. Note that the items under 2 (i.e., the separate sections) set up different designs and interpretations of the story.
4. Also, the purpose of the items under 2 is to show (trace) the thinking from story through implementation.
5. As I hinted in our call, Catherine Menon has a different set of assumptions (as a safety engineer) and in due course it would be good to get her views on this. And this is another reason we want to make the thinking clear and traceable. (By the way, I am not saying her interpretation is better, and ours/yours is 'wrong'. This is part of what Catherine and I want to explore, i.e., how much the story does, and needs to, explicitly express the requirements.)
6. I see in your current implementation that there are various 'hard coded' decisions. That's fine for the moment. I suggest you look to generalise/ parameterise those. The ones I have spotted so far are:
   1. The "should_attack" in EnemyCity is currently hardcoded
   2. The number of generals instantiated is hardcoded (to three?) with one general hardcoded as a True (for the version you sent me)
   3. The traverse_generals() looks like it might be hardcoded (the '2' in parameters), though that might simply be pairing up the generals.
   4. The traitor is hardcoded to flip their decision. We talked about randomising that decision (which admittedly is also a kind of hardcoding).
7. Once you've parameterised your code, you can then set up a series of experiments, varying the number of generals. You might also then parameterise how many should be traitors (default=random). Parameterising the number of traitors allows you to control the experimentation, whilst randomising helps to ensure a true unknown state (unknown to the programmer).
8. I like too that you are including comments in your code. These comments can - do - connect back to the story.
9. I also like that you have implemented the Messengers as a class. I hadn't (!) and I think your implementation is therefore a better mapping to the story.
10. Remember to put this all on a git site, e.g., GitHub or gitlab, whichever you prefer. Actually, that would also provide a way for us to share this with Catherine, e.g., in due course we/you can grant her viewer/commenter access, and of course with your permission.
11. You might want to go back to the BGP paper, and double-check what the story might be. That means you might have in your Assumptions subsection in the Notebooks some notes about how you've interpreted the story.
12. I realise I have written quite a lot above. It's all intended to be constructive and illustrate the enthusiasm/energy I have for these ideas.
13. I like too that we/you have been able to quickly (i.e., within a couple of weeks) get to code, because it allows us to have a concrete example (story, design, implementation) to work with.
14. Let me know how you get on with the above. If you find you've made good progress and are looking for other things to read, think about etc, let me know.
15. Oh, and that blog article you found: good fine, and something I'd like to try to follow up on. That is something you can cite in your research article/s if you decide it's relevant.
16. Also, interesting to read what you have found out about literate programming.

I keep checking in on the following with you - I hope you are finding this interesting. Let know of other directions you'd like to take these ideas in.

One thing I have noticed is that I think in your 'story' you might have rephrased things a little? That's understandable. Can you include a verbatim version of the story too, as a cell. You'll need to decide what to include and not include. Here's my verbatim version as a reference:


> We imagine that several divisions of the Byzantine army are camped outside an enemy city, each division commanded by its own general. The generals can communicate with one another only by messenger. After observing the enemy, they must decide upon a common plan of action. However, some of the generals may be traitors, trying to prevent the loyal generals from reaching agreement.
>
> ...
>
> All loyal generals decide upon the same plan of action.
>
> ...
>
> The loyal generals should not only reach agreement, but should agree upon a reasonable plan

## Notes

* Coders at Work
* The Programmer's Brain
* Thinking about stories vs. code
  * **Is it helpful to think of code as stories?**
* Byzantine...
  * Poor separation of story/engineering.
  * Story "ends" after a few pages. (~2.5)
  * **Add "assumptions".**
  * Story as specification.
    * Is it good enough?
  * **Add user stories.**
    * "As a general I want..."
    * "As a loyal general I want..."
  * What is the story expressing?
    * What is it not?
    * Is there enough in the story?
  * Alternative implementation where traitors return at random.
  * **HINT: Aspect of safety engineering hidden in the story.**
  * Document all decisions.
  * Multiple implementations?
    * Multiple notebooks?
    * Different classes?
  * As you scale the number of generals, does the result stay consistent?
  * Each general might observe different things...
* **Connection between stories and software!**
