*17.11.2021*

## Notes

* "parable algorithms"... Might be worth searching on Google.
* Look at the previously linked Github solution to the BGP and compare with my code/experiments.
* Refine preliminary article.
* Think about the Dining Philosophers.
* Consider in depth the direction of the project.
* Write a separate version of the appendix from the preliminary report without cutting detail.
  * This may become the software report in the future!


## Questions So Far

### What is the relationship between story and software?

**How can story help us understand a problem?**

**How can story help us understand a solution?**

These two questions could (potentially) lie at the heart of answering the question "What is the relationship between story and algorithms/software?". The most obvious answer may simply be "as abstractions" - that is to say, stories help us understand problems and solutions in the form of abstraction, whatever shape that may take. This answer however provides no insight into the overarching problem of the relationship between software and story. It may, therefore, be more appropriate to *attempt* to answer these questions with... more questions:
1. What makes an effective story?
2. What is the story expressing?
3. Is the story telling us enough?
4. Is it helpful to think of code as stories?
5. To what extent can a story be used as a software Specification?
6. What is an algorithm?
7. What is a story?
8. Why do we make algorithms? What is an algorithm for?
9. Why do we make stories?
10. How can story help us understand a problem? How can story help us understand a solution?
